CHAOS-5498 Linux JVM memory stress (#6784)
harness/developer-hub: docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/linux/linux-jvm-memory-stress.md

---
id: linux-jvm-memory-stress
title: Linux JVM memory stress
---

import Ossupport from './shared/note-supported-os.md'
import FaultPermissions from './shared/fault-permissions.md'

Linux JVM memory stress consumes excessive memory resources of the JVM. This sometimes results in OOM kill (Out-of-memory).

:::tip
JVM chaos faults use the [Byteman utility](https://byteman.jboss.org/) to inject chaos faults into the JVM.
:::

![Linux JVM memory stress](./static/images/linux-jvm-memory-stress.png)

## Use cases
Linux JVM memory stress:
- Tests the system's ability to handle high payloads.
- Evaluates the application's behavior in high-stress cases.

> - Induces memory consumption and exhaustion on the target Linux machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Induces memory consumption and exhaustion on the target Java application JVM.
```

- Simulates a lack of memory for processes running on the application, which degrades their performance.
- Simulates application slowness due to memory starvation, and noisy neighbour problems due to excessive consumption of memory.

<Ossupport />

<FaultPermissions />

### Mandatory tunables
<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Tunable </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Notes </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <th> Memory type </th>
>     <th> The type of memory that you can stress: <b>heap</b> or <b>stack</b>.</th>
>     <th>  </th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <th> memoryType </th>
    <th> The type of memory to be stressed</th>
    <th> Can be one of: <b>heap</b> or <b>stack</b> </th>
```
